>> Today we have something
very extraordinary.
I am really thrilled
that we have
Danny Sheehan with us today.
Yes.
And Danny is like a mentor
and a teacher to so many
of us, certainly me.
When he refers to international
or domestic policy,
constitutional
law, world affairs,
international relations, but
certainly also the esoteric
and the mystery
schools, and even UFOs.
So you kind of get an
all-around variety of wisdom
here on a multitude
of different levels.
Of course, he has been involved
in cases like Iran-Contra
and at the Pentagon Papers.
And his credentials
speak so much.
But I'm not going
to waste any time.
Please, give a very warm
and wonderful welcome
for our good friend
Mr. Daniel Sheehan.
>> Thanks.
Thank you.
Hello.
Will this echo or I turn
it off, or something?
Anyway.
Here we go.
Put that over there.
Great.
Thank you, guys.
Thank you.
What I want to talk
about this afternoon
is the fact that other than
this huge brouha going on
and this major
confrontation that's
going on around the country
right now with everybody
sort of retreating to
their respective corners
and getting ready to
have a major food fight,
other than that going on, two
of the major movements going on
in the world right now.
One of them of course
is the major movement
to try to slow and stop, and
reverse global climate change.
This is bearing down
on everyone now.
The scientists have been
trying to tell people
about this for some
two, three decades now.
But now people are
starting to notice it
with half of northern
California burning
to the ground and
massive tornadoes,
coming floods, and wiping
out entire cities like New
Orleans, et cetera.
So people are now sort
of grokking the fact
that the consequences of global
climate change are upon us now.
And so there's a
major movement that's
been going on to
try to come to grips
with the kind of the
fundamental causes of this
and not just address
the symptoms.
And so there's this whole
movement for a Green New Deal,
a major fundamental
reorientation of our economy
and our way of
living that is going
to try to roll back the
consequences of relying
upon fossil fuels, of gasoline,
and coal, and natural gas, et
cetera, and others
of the fossil fuels.
And so that's a major movement.
But there's also
at the same time
going on a second
major movement, which
is this movement for
the establishment
of a new paradigm,
a new worldview.
I touched upon it just
briefly this afternoon
at noontime on the
panel, because they asked
me to talk about what are kind
of the major messages I would
have for people.
And of course, I was addressing
the issue of global climate
change.
But I also talked
about this dynamic
going on of the new paradigm.
And what this is at
base is an effort
on the part of the intellectual,
spiritual, philosophical
community to
attempt to integrate
into all of the various
fields of human knowledge.
The insights that have
actually been come to way
back at the beginning
of the 20th century.
Back between actually
1923 and 1926,
there were a whole series of
major scientific discoveries
that were made by Louis de
Broglie, Max Planck, Neil
Bour, Erwin Schrodinger,
and Werner Heisenberg,
and others that
you've heard about,
that really so
dramatically countered
the fundamental assumptions of
the materialist worldview that
had arisen at the end of the
Enlightenment, that this--
up until the
Enlightenment, it's sort of
understood to have gone on
some right around the beginning
of 1700 to 1789, that entire
period of the 18th century,
during which there was
an effort to dispel
the kind of superstitious
worldviews that had governed
during the medieval period.
It was superstition and dunking
witches to see if they floated
or didn't.
This whole thing
that was going on,
there was an attempt to
kind of get that behind us.
And with the scientific
discoveries that were going on,
the Age of Reason came upon
us through the Enlightenment.
And what happened is there
was a major encyclopedia that
was actually written at
the end of the period,
of the Enlightenment period.
There was-- 28
volumes were written
that were explaining
this entire new worldview
of the natural sciences,
that everything was reduced
to scientific materialism,
and that rational inquiry
through science, and the
application of linear thought
and mathematical certainty
could actually determine all
of the reality in the universe.
They postulated that
everything in the universe
was made up of
material matter that
was either mass or
energy, the two of them,
and that the entire
universe was made up
of these little individual
units of matter,
whether they were
mass or energy.
But if one could determine
how they sort of bang
together, like little
billiard balls,
one could predict how they were
going to bounce off each other.
And you could determine
from determining the weight
and the velocity of a
particular unit of matter,
in its encounter
with another one,
you could determine if you
knew the angle of impact
where it was going.
And so there was this
hallelujah chorus
went up for the human
family that we had finally
discovered how to determine
the future in reality.
And you could get
control over it.
Very importantly, it
postulated-- so it said, first,
that the universe was made up
of these little tiny billiard
balls that we could predict what
was going to happen with them.
And this enabled us to
not only predict it,
but to control it by intervening
physically into the material
universe.
If we could insert
ourselves into the interplay
between these little
billiard balls
that made up all of
the material reality,
we could actually impact
and control reality itself.
Not coincidentally,
empowering ourselves
as a species to basically
gain control over nature
and the material realm of
reality to our own benefit,
not coincidentally,
as it turns out.
That was what the
whole purpose was--
to get control of nature,
get control of reality,
and remold it,
repath it, pathway it
from its logical encounters
with each other at random,
but to get them in control
for our own material benefit.
But as I said, this set of
discoveries that took place
had to cope with the
undertaking at the end
of the period of Enlightenment.
There was this period of--
all of these people Rousseau and
Voltaire, and about 12 people
all came together, big
philosophers and theologians
and scientists, and they all
prepared this big 28 volume
encyclopedia that
basically applied
this theory of scientific,
logical, positivist
materialism.
They applied it to every
field, not just physics,
but in philosophy, in
religion, in linguistics,
and in etymology, the
evolution of our species.
They engaged in
this whole process
of gaining control of how
people thought in the world
in Western civilization.
That had this major effect so
that when the discoveries got
made between 1923 and
1926 in the beginning
of the 20th century,
it really, as I said,
knocked into a
complete cocked hat
all of these fundamental
assumptions about materialism.
The world view didn't change.
The scientific community
stayed locked in
to this scientific, logical,
positivist, radical materialist
worldview, because our entire
sense of power and control
over our environment was
so essential to our species
that we wouldn't let go of it.
And so these discoveries that
got made between 1923 and 1926,
even though the scientific
community started
making these all
available to everybody,
there was deep resistance to it.
And so what were this
handful of discoveries
that were made
between 1923 and 1926
that so fundamentally challenged
the fundamental assumptions
of this worldview view?
And that was this.
What they discovered is that
these little billiard balls,
that they all had presumed
under the materialist worldview
were these ultimately solid
little units of matter that
would bang together
and we could predict
how they were
going to interact--
what they discovered
is that those could be,
in fact, broken up.
You could break up those atoms,
in that they would actually
break up into protons and
neutrons and electrons.
And you could actually
break them up further.
And you could break
up the proton.
You could break that up
into smaller electrons.
You could break them up further
into photons, in neutrinos,
in quarks, in leptons, in muons,
and sleptons, and squarks.
And they kept on going.
They kept on being
able to discover
you could break these things
up into smaller and smaller
and smaller entities of matter.
But the most important
thing they discovered
is that you would
ultimately come to a point
where when you broke up
the most-- the smallest
possible unit of matter,
that it would disappear,
that it would actually become
non-materially manifest.
And it would-- all that
was there was what they
call an inchoate quantum field.
Inchoate meaning that
it's non-manifest.
It's there in potential,
but it's not there
in any kind of
material manifestation.
And what they discovered
is that, however,
if you observe one of these
inchoate quantum fields,
that it would flash back
up into material existence.
And it would materialize
either as a wave of energy
and then pop back out of
material manifestation,
and then it would then pop into
material manifestation again,
either as another--
a wave of energy
again, or as an incipient
particle of mass.
So you've got this mass
or energy manifestation
in the material realm of an
otherwise inchoate quantum
field.
So this was a
complete astonishment
to the materialist world
saying, wait a second.
You have actually undermined
the most fundamental premise
of materialism,
that there aren't
these predictable
little billiard balls
that we can figure
out how they're
bumping into each
other, and so we
can intervene physically and get
control over the environment.
So what they
discovered, however,
is that these inchoate
quantum fields, when
they would flash into
material manifestation,
either as a wave of energy
or as basically a Higgs
boson, an incipient particle
of mass, what they--
they were figuring this out,
and the big problem number two
that they discovered is
that they didn't materially
manifest as either a wave of
energy or a particle of mass
in any type of
predictable pattern.
There was no
predictability about this.
Now, this is quite
disquieting for people
that are trying to get
control over this process.
And so what they discovered is
that this random manifestation
into the material realm,
either as a wave of energy
or a particle of mass,
which they were totally
unable to predict, what
they discovered, thirdly,
and most importantly, is that if
in fact a human being directed
her or his intention to
the inchoate quantum field,
it would actually manifest
as what was intended, not
to a completely
predictable level,
but to a statistically
significant degree, which
was all that was necessary
to really freak them out,
because what this did is it
completely contravened one
of the most
fundamental assumptions
of the materialist
world view, and that
was that somehow the material
world existed out there,
outside of our eyeballs, outside
of our intention, outside
of our perspective.
There was this objective
material world and universe
that existed in
which we could then
relate to in this
dialectical dynamic of us
being outside of it and
separate and apart from it.
And we could then relate to it.
And our intellect was the
means by which we did this.
And the Latin root
for the intellect
is [SPEAKING LATIN],, which
means the ability to distinguish
the difference between.
So that our application
of our intellect
was rooted in the
necessity of being
able to have these
separate entities
of little billiard balls that we
could then apply our intellect,
the ability to distinguish
the difference between them,
and make these computations
as to how they were going
to interact with each other.
So now all of a sudden,
you, first of all,
drop right off the
cliff of having
these billiard balls disappear
entirely out of material
manifestation.
And then you had even this
more troublesome reality
that somehow our direct
human intention actually
had a direct effect upon the
actual form in which matter
would manifest itself,
either as a wave of energy
or a particle of mass.
And so these things actually
scared all the materialists
to begin with.
They said, wait a second.
We're losing control here.
We're not in control
of what's going on.
As they continued to
do their experiments,
what they discovered
is that if you
had one of either a wave of
energy or a particle of mass,
if you accelerated
two of these away
from each other traveling at
virtually the speed of light,
what they discovered is
that if you applied force
to one of them as they
were accelerating away
from each other and you
applied force to one of them,
the other one would move.
And even though they were
traveling at the speed of light
and they were a distance
away from each other,
it would happen absolutely
instantaneously.
And so what that meant
was that somehow there
was having an effect at a
distance that occurred faster
than the speed of light.
And they were convinced
that nothing could happen--
the materialists-- nothing
could happen faster
than the speed of light.
And yet here was this direct
evidence that it could.
And so what they discovered--
they were actually
able to compute this,
and they discovered
that every single
integer of matter,
whether it's energy or
mass, every single integer
of matter in the entire universe
was attracted to and bonded
with and entangled
with every other one
everywhere in the universe.
The degree of
attraction between them
was simply inversely
proportional
to the square of the
distance between them.
Now, this is a lot of
extraordinarily intellectual
work that's being
done here to try
to understand how the
bottom was dropping out
of the materialist world view.
However, the adherence to
the material world view,
even though it was now
scientifically outmoded,
all of its fundamental
presumptions, they clung
to the materialist
world view, because
via this encyclopedia
that had been prepared
at the end of the
18th century, they
had thoroughly thought out
all of the implications
of materialism for all
of the other fields
of human knowledge--
philosophy, and theology, and
literature, and everything
else.
And so they clung to
this for two reasons.
One is that you're probably
all familiar with Thomas Kuhn.
Thomas Kuhn wrote this
famous article in 1962
called "The Structure of
Scientific Revolutions."
And he said that with all
the bragging that scientists
do about how objective
they are and how committed
they are to staying open-minded
in concluding things
about science, they discovered
that when scientists take
a position on something,
even though they profess
to be doing
experiments and looking
for hypothetical changes in
that, that they don't change,
and that the only way to
bring about a major revolution
in scientific thinking
was not to convince
the scientists that
they were wrong,
but you had to wait
for them to die.
Really.
And so scientific revolutions
happen by a whole generation
of scientists dying.
And then the new insights
that have come about
will come to pass.
So theoretically, what
should have happened
is when all of the radical
materialist scientists
started dying off, then
the new quantum insights
ought to have come into place,
but they weren't, because
of this work that had been done
and this set of encyclopedias,
these 28 volumes.
This is the thing that isn't
really that well known about,
but it was prepared
between 1751 and 1772.
It's called the "Encyclopedia
of the Systematic Encyclopedia
of Science and Art," and
it was edited by Diderot,
and I said Rousseau
was involved.
Voltaire was involved.
Montesquieu was involved.
And they all wrote in these
various areas of theology
and economics and science
and philosophy, and so
even though people
don't think about it,
about the fact that all of these
other fields of human knowledge
are really derivative of
the fundamental assumptions
about the universe, the
actual physical functioning
of the universe.
And so no one wanted
to let go of this.
And the fact is
even to this day,
no one has compiled an
alternative encyclopedia
of really trying to
counter the effect
of this original set of writings
that were done way back--
it ended in 1772.
So this is a task
that needs to really
be undertaken if in
fact there is going
to be a full-throated effort to
reconceive of reality in light
of these discoveries.
Now, all of these
areas I point out
that were influenced by the
scientific logical positivist
worldview that need to
be revisited and looked
at include, as I said, theology
and philosophy and cosmology
and all of these.
So you might ask,
am I singling out
some of these areas of human
knowledge as most important?
This is the second part of what
I want to talk about tonight.
And this is that--
and this all becomes--
all of this is
going to be relating
to how this new world view,
this new quantum world view,
once it's thoroughly fleshed
out and expanded into dealing
with all the areas
other than simply
physics, but philosophy
and theology and economics
and other things.
The reason that
it's so important
is because what I
discovered was--
you probably know I practice law
all the time, and back in 1973,
'72 and '73, we were doing
the Watergate burglary case,
that I was in the Boston law
firm of attorney F. Lee Bailey.
Our office was
representing James McCord,
who was the former CIA
wiretapping specialist that
was in the Democratic
National Committee
with the other
Watergate burglars.
And he's the one that ended
up writing the letter to Judge
Sirica, blowing the whistle on
the plumbers unit and Richard
Nixon that led to his--
the articles of impeachment
against Richard Nixon
that caused him to resign.
But I was-- I got brought over
by Bailey to work on that case
from the Cahill firm on Wall
Street, where I'd come--
I was the co-founding editor
of the Harvard Civil Rights Law
Review, and had gone
directly from there to--
we initiated the case at
the Law Review at Harvard
to establish the
right of journalists
to protect their
confidential news sources.
That's where that came from
was from our work at the law
review.
And so I got recruited
by the law firm that
represented NBC News
down on Wall Street
to come to their firm to
do that case with them,
and had then done the Pentagon
Papers case, because "The New
York Times" brought the Pentagon
Papers to us when their law
firm, Lord Day & Lord threatened
to turn them into the FBI
if they didn't give them back.
So I ended up being the
one that Jim Goodale
called who was the general
counsel for "The New York
Times," because I had done the
amicus briefs for "The New York
Times" on the right
of journalists
to protect their
confidential news sources.
We were doing that at the same
time we were representing NBC.
That was actually the principle
client, this guy, John Pappas,
one of their reporters.
So the bottom line is I was
at F. Lee Bailey's office.
And Bailey during the course
of our working on the Watergate
burglary case, he
and I had a number
of fairly intense conversations
about what we ought to be done.
And I actually-- some of you
have heard this story before--
and what we were working
on the case and all the way
up into May of 1973--
this happened, remember, on
the night of June 17 of 1972.
And so we were
working on that case
all the way up into
the spring of 1973.
And in May of 1973, the
occupation at Wounded Knee
occurred out in South Dakota.
And I got called by
a classmate of mine
and a good friend of mine
from Harvard Law School
who was the head of
the Rocky Mountain
region for ACLU national.
And so he asked me to come out
to help on the Wounded Knee
case.
So I went out to do that.
And when I came back to the
office, to Lee Bailey's office,
Lee called me.
He said, Dan, I understand
that you were out
at the Wounded Knee occupation.
I said, yes.
Yes, I was.
He said, come on over.
Come on down to my office,
and let's talk about this.
So I go down to the
office and sit down.
And he said to me, he said,
which side were you on?
I said, well, actually, I said,
well, we were working on it
and trying to get medical
supplies and food and water
and stuff to the people
inside the occupation that
had all these
snipers lying around,
FBI snipers, and DEA
snipers that were trying
to pick off people who were--
the native people that were
occupying this little village.
And he said, you weren't
on the side of the FBI?
And I said, no, no.
And he said, well, what the
hell good does that do us?
He said, if you'd been
on the side of the FBI
and the Justice
Department, at least
we would have generated some
goodwill for the office.
And you could have gone
to the Justice Department
to intervene to get a
better deal, for example,
for like Michael Angiulo,
one of the mafia people
that we represent.
So I was going,
uh, wait a second.
Let's have a discussion about
here what I'm doing here
and what you're doing here.
So I started having this
discussion with him.
And he started saying
things like, hey, look,
it's not up to me to decide
whether the clients are guilty
or not.
All I do is do everything I
can do to get them acquitted.
And it's up to the other
side to get him convicted
if they want to do that.
And he was actually avoiding
any responsibility whatsoever
for dealing with the truth or
justice or anything like that.
And so I was having this rather
intense conversation with him
about a different
view that I had.
And anyway, so I was staying at
his townhouse on Beacon Hill.
He was newly married.
And he was living
outside of Boston.
I was staying at his
townhouse on Beacon Hill.
And that following
Sunday morning-- it
was a Friday afternoon we
had that big discussion.
So Sunday morning, I go to
church at St. Cecilia's.
I go to church, and I'm
coming back from church.
And I stop into this bookstore.
I'm kind of rummaging
around in the bookstore.
And I find a copy
of this new book
that's come out called
"The Theory of Justice"
by John Rawls.
John Rawls was the chairman of
the department of philosophy
at Harvard University
at the time.
So I looked at it.
And I started looking
through this thing.
And he was writing
a major treatise,
his major treatise on justice.
And he thought that he was
going to try to figure out
what the essential
aspects of justice
were in Western civilization.
And he thought that
in a democracy,
when a society is confronted
with a public policy problem,
whether it's--
whether you're going
to support abortion,
or whether you're going
to support first strike
nuclear weapons, whether
you're going to support capital
punishment, whatever the
public policy issue was,
that he suspected that
in a democratic society,
that what would happen
is the government
would end up choosing
the option to address
each one of those issues
that generated the greatest
good for the greatest number.
The classic utilitarian,
majoritarian mode
of ethical reasoning.
But it turns out he discovered
in doing his work that
wasn't what happened,
that there was
this other factor that was going
on in Western civilization.
And he said, there
are people who assert
that all men are created equal.
They're endowed by their
creator with certain inalienable
rights.
And they start listing all
these rights free speech,
freedom of religion,
freedom of the press.
They start elucidating these
other positions-- equal
treatment despite your race.
You know, everything.
And he said that this
group of people in Western
civilization he referred
to as the intuitionists.
And so I said, oh, wow.
I said, look it.
That must be the story here.
Here's Lee Bailey, a
strict utilitarian--
what's in it for us?
How are you going to do
something that benefits us?
And here I am with
these-- citing
these other kind of abstract
philosophical principles.
And so I said, I better
get the book and read it.
So I got a copy of it,
brought it home, and read it.
And then I called over to John
Rawls office at the school.
I'd gone to Harvard College
and Harvard Law School.
And so I called him up, and
called the secretary, and said,
I'd like to have a meeting
with Professor Rawls
to talk about his new book.
Basically, she was saying,
yeah, you and a whole bunch
of other people.
But I said-- so I
started waving my school
tie through the
phone going, I went
to college and the law school.
I was the founder of the
Law Review, all this stuff.
And so she finally says, OK,
well, let me talk to him.
So he says he agrees
Wednesday I can come over
to see him like at 2 o'clock,
and he'll give me 15 minutes.
So I go over there.
I sit down and start
talking with him,
and talk about the fact that
I'd done the Pentagon Papers
case for "The New York Times."
I did the case that established
the right of journalists
to protect confidential
news sources,
that I was doing work on
the Watergate burglary case.
And he's going--
his eyes are kind
of getting big like saucers.
And he said, holy mackerel.
He said, I didn't
think that people
that were involved in that kind
of practical work in the law
really cared about these kind
of more abstract concepts
that have to do with justice
and intuitionists and all that.
So we went from 15 minutes
to an hour to two hours.
He kept canceling
other meetings he had.
So he ended up asking
me to come back
to Harvard to do a PhD in
comparative social ethics,
comparing and
contrasting the mode
of ethical reasoning of
majoritarian utilitarianism
versus intuitionism.
And so I kept asking him.
I said, well,
what's going on with
these intuitionists anyhow?
He said, I don't know.
I don't know what's
going on there.
I just know they
say these things.
They kind of-- they've got a
cryptic, philosophical thing.
It's not clear where
they're coming from.
And so I said I guess I
better come back to the school
and see if we can
help figure this out.
So I come back.
So I leave Bailey's office, and
I enroll in September of '73
to go back to Harvard
University to do my master's
degree, and then PhD.
And I figured I was going to end
up in the philosophy department
under John Rawls.
Well, it turns out
they assigned me
to have my thesis advisor
for my master's thesis
be Dr. Ralph Potter, who teaches
comparative social ethics.
And he's over at the
Harvard Divinity School.
So I get assigned to
the Divinity School.
So I said, it's OK with me.
They used to say that.
And when I was at
the law school,
I would ask certain questions
during the law school class.
And they would say,
Mr. Sheehan, if you're
going to ask
questions like that,
why don't you go over
to the Divinity School?
And so lo and
behold, here I was.
There I was at the
Divinity School.
Kind of the indirect
route, but there I was.
And I discovered
something that is
extraordinarily important for
us to talk about here today.
And that is this.
It's that Dr. Ralph Potter
started explaining to us
that there had been lots--
huge studies done at Harvard
University and other places
around the world.
And what they came
to discover is
that whenever our human
family is confronted
by any major public policy
issue, that what happens
is our human family
divides into factions,
and that these factions take a
completely different position
as to what ought to
be done to respond
to this particular
public policy issue.
And Dr. Talcott Parsons, who was
the founder of the Department
of Sociology at
Harvard University,
spent years sending his master's
students and PhD students out
around the world and
interviewing everybody
and trying to get them to tell
what their position was on some
of these issues, whether it's
nuclear first strike, abortion,
capital punishment, racial
justice, affirmative action,
whatever the issues were.
And what he discovered
is that the human family,
we tend to break ourselves
into, he thought,
five different groupings.
And they never did find a
white board for me here.
And I'm completely inept
in all this technology.
So I'll have to explain it
to you kind of visually.
What Ralph-- what Talcott
Parsons discovered,
he discovered that
these groupings
that we break into
naturally as human beings,
that there is a position
on the extreme right
that he called
right systematists.
They think systematically
in that they come up
with this position, which he
put at the end of this spectrum,
and way over on
the other side, he
had this group called
left systematists.
And immediately inside on this
spectrum that he had designed,
this sociological bar
graph, he had another group
that was, he said, that were
left marginalists and right
marginalists just inside that.
And then a group called
middle marginalists
to no one's surprise.
It was the middle marginalists.
And so he just laid
these people out.
And he said you go around
interviewing people.
[PHONE RINGING]
And what he
discovered-- this must
be Talcott Parsons right now.
He thinks I don't have it right.
No, it's not him.
Some guy from prison.
Oh, gee.
Anyway.
So the bottom line is--
so he came up with these
five different factions
that our human family
tends to break into.
And so what I did is I
started looking at these.
And I came up--
I was doing my master's
thesis on this.
And rather than-- what they want
to do is they assign you one--
you pick one of these
major public policy issues,
like affirmative
action, whether or not
there should be an equal rights
amendment to the Constitution.
You pick one of these
public policy issues.
And then you're supposed
to go around researching
all the people that
have spoken on the issue
and break them up into
these five factions.
And what I did is I came
to believe that there were
actually in addition to the
right systematists and right
marginalists, there
was a group called
right middle
marginalists that were
in between the middle
marginalists and there.
And the same thing
was true on the left,
that they were not
only left systematists
and left marginalists, but
left middle marginalists, which
were the classic liberals
and conservatives,
classic liberal and
conservative positions
that he hadn't even
taken into account.
And so I was doing
my master's thesis
actually critiquing the founder
of the department of sociology
at the department of Harvard.
It wasn't the most
popular thing to do,
but I was convinced it was true.
And so I started talking to
Ralph Potter, saying to him,
look it.
Because I was a lawyer
and I was asking questions
that were a little bit
different than other people,
other students did.
And I said, look,
what is it that
causes a person to be in one
of these groups or the other?
And he said, well,
that's interesting.
He said, that's what I did
my PhD work on, he said,
under Talcott Parsons.
And what he came
to believe is this.
And this is what's
important for you.
And I want to see everybody
taking notes here.
This is the tough
part of the seminar.
But what he decided
is that there
were four fundamental pillar
beliefs that every human being
has to form some
kind of an opinion
about if they're going to be
able to function effectively
in the world.
And what these are, they--
if I had the little chart,
I'd show you there's
this great big four square,
a great big four square,
like you play Four Square.
And there's four of these
fundamental beliefs.
And the first one is
cosmology, which is, how is it
that you think the
universe came into being?
These are profound and
fundamental questions
that have to do with your
understanding of reality
itself.
And the second issue
after cosmology
about how the cosmos came into
being is another big fancy word
called teleology.
And that is how do you believe
the universe is unfolding?
Do you think the
universe is unfolding
pursuant to some sort
of laws, natural laws,
and there's some
sort of end in mind,
there's some sort of
objective that is unfolding
in the universe or not?
Then the fourth one
is the other big word.
It's called-- but you'll
see how important this one.
It's ontology.
What is your
ontological conclusion?
That is how did consciousness
come into being?
It's a good thing for this
weekend to talk about.
How did consciousness
come into being?
Is consciousness just
sort of an epiphenomenon
between the kind of random
collision between mass
and energy or units
of mass encountering
each other in an organism,
that somehow this
is an epiphenomenon
of some sort,
like an overtone of music?
How did consciousness come
into being in this otherwise
strictly material universe?
And the fourth and
final of these,
of Potter's box, the
four square, the one
is epistemology.
And now this is
another big word for,
what are the means that we have
at our disposal as human beings
to be able to answer
cosmic questions like that?
Are we limited to just what
we can see and taste and touch
and smell?
Are we limited to our five
senses as taking in data
and then putting them
through our intellect
to try to figure out what the
answer to these things are?
Or are there other means
that we have at our disposal?
Such as, for example,
ESP, or channeling.
There's all kinds of other means
that certain people hypothesize
exist.
It answers the
epistemological question.
And what they discovered is that
there are entirely different
answers that people provide
to these four questions.
How did the universe
come into being?
How is the universe unfolding
toward any particular end
or objective or purpose?
How did consciousness
come into being?
And what means do we have at our
disposal by means of which we
can ascertain those truths?
There are different answers
that you can come up
with to those questions.
And it is important,
absolutely essential
that we put a little
bookmark on this
to say that nobody knows
the answer to those things.
Nobody knows the definitive
answer to those things.
But the fact is it's impossible
to function in the world
without you at least
unconsciously coming
to some conclusion
about those things
even if you don't think
about it consciously.
And what they discovered is that
if in fact you answer all four
of those questions,
the questions
as to how the universe came
into being, how it's unfolding,
or whether it's unfolding
toward a particular point, how
consciousness came into being,
and what the means are that we
have at our disposal to
ascertain that information,
if you answer all four
of those questions
in a way that is internally
and self-referential consistent
so that all three
of the other answers
are consistent with whatever the
answer is that you gave to one
of them, that if you
answer those four
questions in a way
that is internally
and self-referential
consistent, what you have
is that you generate,
you discern a common principle
that is underlying the answer
to each one of those questions.
You come up with
a principle that
generates a specific mode
of ethical reasoning.
And I want to be clear
about what this means.
Everybody engages
in conduct which
they think is consistent
with reality, right?
I mean, that's the
ethical thing to do
is you choose to comport
your conduct in accordance
with reality with the
exception of some major people
that we know.
But the bottom line is
that that's the ethical way
of conducting yourself.
You may have a different
view of what reality is,
but as long as you're
engaging in conduct
that is consistent with what
you legitimately believe reality
to be, that's an
ethical position.
OK?
And so there are different
modes of ethical reasoning
that are generated by different
answers to those questions.
And what we came
to understand is
that based on this analysis
of Talcott Parsons's
ideological spectrum
that goes all the way
from a right systematist all the
way over to a left systematist,
with those seven major
nodal points along there,
from right systematist
to right marginalist
to right middle marginalist
to middle marginalist
to left middle marginalist
to left marginalist
to the left
systematist, those seven
nodal points along the
sociological bar graph,
that they all are--
what they have in common
is each one of them provides
an answer to all four
of those questions
which is internally
and self-referential consistent
with the other three.
And so that's what
generates a consistent mode
of ethical reasoning
for these people.
And so they have a worldview,
a whole world view.
And if you apply the
principles of that worldview
to answering all the normal
questions that you encounter
in your workday
life, it generates
a full-blown philosophy.
That's where
philosophies come from.
When you actually
get into read--
I mean, people who don't
know any better just
keep reading all these
different philosophers.
And they say this,
and they say that.
But what they're
doing is they're
offering a systematic analysis
of fundamental questions coming
from a consistent point of
view and a consistent mode
of ethical reasoning.
And that's what generates
the major philosophers.
So that's extraordinarily
important,
because what you discover
is that a subfunction
of your philosophy is
your political philosophy.
Your political philosophy
flows directly out
of your philosophy.
What you're doing is you're
applying your philosophy
to the question of how do you go
about addressing public policy
questions in a community.
When you're faced with a
range of potential responses
to a given public
policy problem,
how do you select
which one you want?
You apply a mode of
ethical reasoning to that.
And so what we see,
this is the one that
is most common to everybody.
This is where you get
the normal right wing
and left wing people.
OK?
Because on the extreme
right, the right
systematists, the
political philosophy
that is generic to the right
systematist authoritarianism.
And you come into the
right marginalists
and they are reactionaries.
And you come in one step more to
the right middle marginalists,
and they're conservatives.
And you come into the
middle marginalist,
and they're moderates,
to no surprise.
You go to the left of center,
to the left middle marginalists,
and you get liberals.
And you go to the
left marginalists,
and you get progressives.
And you get to the far left
of the left systematists,
and you get utopianists.
OK?
So now we're talking.
Now we're into something
that people understand.
But the fact is they don't
understand where it comes from.
And they don't understand
what it means, you see?
And so people sling these ideas
around all over the place.
You know, ah, he's
an authoritarian.
He's some kind of reactionary.
Or somebody's some kind
of soft-headed liberal.
And they don't even
know what it means,
but they just have some
vague idea where they fall
along the political spectrum.
But what this shows
is that there are full
scale scientific logical
ways of figuring out why it
is that people do what they do.
OK?
And what I discovered in going
through all this, I said--
now we're getting
into this weekend--
what I discovered is
that the charisms that
are attached to these seven
different nodal points
along the sociological bar
graph, the charisms that
are characteristic of
each of those nodal points
are exactly the same
characteristics that
are attributed to the
chakras, and that you
get these right systematists
are deeply rooted
in their root chakra.
I mean, red-red, you know?
And they're totally
clinging to life.
They're totally insecure.
They're constantly
fearful that they're
going to die or disappear
or be disempowered.
And so they react in a very
classic way all the time.
OK?
And this happens.
And it goes-- if
you're familiar at all
with the charisms of the
different chakras, what you'll
see, you start to line
them up with these seven,
and you'll discover that
these charisms match
almost identically.
And so for the first
time, you start to say,
well, this may begin to
explain why a person adheres
to one of those worldviews.
What happens is that
when you look at this
and you start to
compare and contrast
the fundamental
charisms of the chakras
with these charisms of
these particular worldviews,
what you discover is a
very important thing.
And that is that there's got to
be an eighth world view because
of the eighth chakra.
The chakra that
exists above your head
at the top of the
energy envelopes
that are generated by
the chakras in your body,
that you have these seven
energy envelopes that are each
generated by the
chakra, the energy
of its particular
vibrational frequency,
its particular rate of spin, its
particular tip to the ecliptic,
That these are energy fields
that form around your body.
And at the apex of all
of this, these envelopes,
there's an eighth chakra.
So there's got to be
an eighth world view.
And so what is that world view?
This is the world
view that we're
bumping into all the time
with the extraterrestrials.
This is the thing that we
aren't understanding at all.
There's something
just out of our reach,
just out of our comprehension.
There's things happening
with these, folks.
They go faster than
the speed of light.
They materialize
and dematerialize.
They move through walls.
They don't seem to be bound
by our limitations of time.
There's something completely
mysterious going on.
And so what I'm saying is that
the genuinely new paradigm
is not just the sixth
paradigm quantum world
view, which is the basic
progressive worldview
that everybody believes in
quantum physics basically
ends up being kind
of a progressive,
because they think that their
direct intention can influence
the manifestation of matter
in the next microsecond,
and we can all sing "Kumbaya"
together and make the world
a better place.
This is the progressive
worldview, and that
all of us at the present time--
we're going to have the next
part of this conversation.
This is a very important one.
It may sound like
what I'm saying
is that you shouldn't attach
yourself to the sixth paradigm
quantum worldview as the
new paradigm worldview,
but I'm going to
suggest that we should,
because that's the next one
that's opening up for us all.
It's the sixth chakra.
It's the pituitary chakra.
It's the one that
has to do with ESP.
It's the one that has
to do with telepathy.
It's the one that has to
do with teleportation.
There's all kinds
of charisms that
are generic to
this sixth paradigm
worldview in this quantum
realm that we're talking about.
And the thing that tom me
is so important about this
is that the seventh--
let me give you a
classic example just
so we'll get grounded here.
And that is let's deal with
just one of these four pillar
beliefs of cosmology.
OK?
The adherents to the right
systematist worldview
believe that they recognize
that our universe is expanding.
They recognize that all the
elements on the periodic table
chart are disintegrating into
their constituent elements.
And so they're
expanding out in a way
from the original
locus of the big bang
and disintegrating
and expanding.
And what they
conclude is that this
is going to continue going
on until every single element
in the universe
has disintegrated
into its component
inchoate quantum fields,
and they're going to
continue to expand.
And it's going to, therefore,
expand out into nothingness.
That's the absolute
entropy of the universe.
And so that's what they
believe is going on,
both cosmically
and teleologically.
OK?
That's a pretty
depressing worldview,
because it leads them
to believe that there's
no point to anything.
The only thing that
makes any difference
is them asserting themselves
and asserting control
over an otherwise
chaotic universe
through the application of brute
force or better intelligence,
but just dominating
everybody and taking control.
Now, the reactionaries,
the right marginalists,
they believe that the universe
is expanding out and away
from the original big bang,
and in fact, all the elements
are disintegrating.
But they believe that
when you get to the point
where every single element
on the periodic table
has disintegrated into its
respective inchoate quantum
fields and it expands to
that particular point, what
will happen is the
impetus of the big bang
will have been exhausted,
and that there'll
be this stasis, a
moment of stasis.
And the bonding attraction
that every single unit
has for every other one
will then take over.
And there will be this moment,
this micro moment of stasis,
and then it'll all start
coming back together again.
And all of those
inchoate quantum fields
will start joining
together to form
leptons and muons and
squarks and electrons
and protons and neutrons
and stars and galaxies
and living conscious
beings that are a function
of this particular process.
And they will continue
to come back together,
tighter and tighter and
tighter and tighter,
until they all collapse
back into the point
where every single
inchoate quantum
field in the entire universe
is in direct physical contact
with every other one.
And that's the
little pinhead you
keep hearing about all the
time that these astrophysicists
talk about.
The entire universe exists
at the size of a pinhead.
Remember that one?
And then what
happens, they believe,
is that the polarity at
that point just reverses.
And what happens is
it explodes again,
not explodes from
the middle out.
Every single,
ultimately, [INAUDIBLE]
of matter in the entire
physical universe
repels every other one.
And it generates
another big bang.
And so you get this big
bang that occurs again,
and it starts to expand out and
create galaxies and universes
and living entities and
conscious beings that
relate to the universe.
And it goes again.
This is what they call
the oscillating cosmos.
the [SPEAKING LATIN],,
the grand year of the
reactionary worldview.
And it repeats over and
over and over again.
And they believe that
it's all very mechanical.
It's just kind of predestined
to kind of go like that.
And what they
think, therefore, is
that their mode of
ethical reasoning
is that it's not like the
mode of ethical reasoning
of the right systematists
that everything is chaos
and you have to just assert
your power and control
and get control of an
otherwise chaotic universe
and impose your will on it.
What the reactionary believe
is that what you have to do
is you have to get on one side
or another of a dialectic,
because that they
can tell is going on.
There's this dialectical
process going on--
expanding and contracting.
And so therefore their
mode of ethical reasoning
is get on one side of
a dialectic or another,
and thereby lend
meaning to your life.
It's yin and yang.
And it's black and white.
It's good guys.
It's bad guys.
It's red team.
It's blue team.
It's Republicans.
It's Democrats.
And what we see is our culture
in Western civilization
is very much attached to this
reactionary paradigm right now.
Everybody goes crazy over
San Francisco 49ers playing
the Kansas City
Chiefs, or the New York
Yankees playing the Boston
Red Sox, or the Oakland--
the Golden State Warriors
playing the Bucks or something.
And they just train you to it.
They bring people up
their entire lives
dedicated to this dialectic.
And the people people who
can't find any other meaning
in their lives go
crazy in the stands.
And they put big
spikes on their head.
And they wear all
these crazy costumes.
And they drink and
get totally crocked
and they eat meat like mad.
And they go and fight.
I'm telling you.
What I'm saying is that
this reactionary paradigm,
this dialectical paradigm
is extraordinarily
strong in that
they unconsciously
believe in the
oscillating cosmos,
and that there's
no meaning to life
at all unless you're
on one side or another
of a fundamental dialectic.
And that's how you derive all
of your meaning out of life.
Of course, this is Hagel.
Hagel is the philosopher
of the second paradigm,
the dialectical materialism
that you hear about.
Now, what are the
other views of this?
You go over to the-- all the way
over to the seventh paradigm,
in this case, the left
systematists worldview.
And what they believe is
that there is an infinite,
and in finite, an eternal sea
of absolutely undifferentiated
consciousness that abides.
And there is this
event that takes
place that is in
fact taking place
at every single microsecond,
because time doesn't exist
in that field of the
setting up of a perturbance
inside the otherwise completely
undifferentiated field
of consciousness.
A differentiation occurs.
And so what happens is that
this differentiation sets up
a polar event in
that there's a desire
to get back to a completely
unified consciousness.
And so there's a reaching out of
one end of this differentiation
to the other, which generates
the original wave of energy
in the universe.
And then it comes
back together again
and manifests as a
potential Higgs boson,
an actual particle of mass.
And this process
starts to go on.
And there's this kind of
mitosis that takes place.
And it just keeps on
going and going and going.
And it actually generates
the material universe.
But it's important to
remember, the universe,
all of these material entities
is made up of consciousness.
It's just a condensation of
consciousness in the universe.
And so therefore
it's not a matter
of there being a
consciousness that
exists just outside of
the parameters of the sum
total of mass and
energy in the universe.
The universe itself is
pervaded with consciousness,
that every single
inchoate quantum
field in the entire universe
is, in fact, conscious.
And the you start putting more
and more of them together.
And they actually-- this
is an ontological issue--
is that somehow a certain
number of them come together,
and what they do is
they end up having
a collective consciousness.
And they actually view--
they experience themselves
as having a consciousness
that incorporates
a whole bunch of these
inchoate quantum fields.
And then you get these little
single organisms, living
organisms, that are conscious.
And they actually
can decide to kind
of move around in
the ocean and stuff.
And they could-- and they
get more and more complex.
This what take Teilhard de
Chardin talks about at length
is the complexification of life
as it evolves teleologically up
into higher and higher
forms, and that there's
this whole process
that's going on.
And so therefore, this
left systematist worldview
is almost the classic
theological worldview,
because in attempting
to communicate
this extraordinarily
sophisticated understanding
to people at a time
in the Middle Ages
when 99% of the people
were completely illiterate.
They couldn't read, never saw
anything, a book of any kind,
and never even moved
more than 50 miles
away from the spot
that they were born.
And so the effort to
try to communicate
this kind of extraordinarily
subtle insight
into the ultimate
nature of reality
started anthropomorphizing
the infinite and eternal.
But at the same time, the
mystics in that whole realm
would keep saying, you
cannot now nounify--
you cannot nounify the
infinite and eternal.
It is heresy if you try
to give a name to this
and nounify it, you are
ruined, because you've
completely misunderstood
what the reality is here,
because it is not a noun.
It's a verb.
And in fact, it's a
non-transitive verb of being.
All right?
And there is a--
you can't even
think of it in terms
of there being a relationship
between it and us.
Us is it.
We am it, you know?
And I am that I am.
That that's what this is.
So you get this
completely different
cosmological assumption
about how the universe came
into being and
how it's unfolding
and toward what
ends it's unfolding.
And so you begin to see
these different cosmological
assumptions and different
teleological assumptions
generate an entirely different
mode of ethical reasoning.
And so the reason that
I raise all of this
is so that you'll be
familiar with the fact
when I tell you
that the adherents
to these different worldviews
have a very different idea
about global climate change.
The authoritarians, they view
the scientific information
about the existence
of global climate
change as an inherent threat.
It's a threat to their control.
It's a threat to their
continued domination and control
of the world through their
ownership of oil and gas
and coal and the military
instrumentalities that
run off fossil fuels that they
use to dominate the world.
And they've created this idea
of money, which they created.
And they try to pretend they
created it for our benefit,
because it's easier
than carrying
around bushels of wheat and
apples to exchange and barter.
But it's not.
They created it, so
they control it, right?
And they manipulate it.
And they become super
multimillionaires
by doing it and
lending the money.
And so the whole idea
of global climate change
coming on and threatening
the continued utilization
of fossil fuels
on which they have
cast their lot for
controlling the world
is experienced as another
threat, another type of chaos.
And so what they do
is they react to it.
And they try to crush the
people that are involved in it.
The reactionaries,
the reactionaries,
what they believe, you
know what they believe.
They believe that, well,
it's a hoax by China,
that our adversary, our ultimate
other, our dialectic opponent
is faking all this,
because they're
trying to undermine our basic
industrial base in the world.
And so they just say that it's
a hoax perpetrated by China.
All right?
And so then the conservatives,
they keep arguing that,
well, maybe it's just part
of the natural cycle, right?
They love this one.
It's just part of
the natural cycle.
Oh, there were ice ages,
and there were ice fields.
And now they're just
kind of melting,
and we're going back
to a different stage.
So they have a very conservative
attitude about the whole thing.
And the moderates,
who are basically
agnostic about the
whole thing, they just
advise that we take
incremental steps.
Let's try to do something
about cutting back
on the amount of fossil
fuel that we use, but let's
make sure that the people
who own all the fossil fuels
can own the alternative
sources of energy
as well so that BP can move
into creating alternative energy
and doing windmills
and generating
solar panels and stuff.
As long as we take
it nice and slowly,
we can convert all
the way into this.
I mean, that's the moderate's
way of dealing with it.
The liberals,
classic like Obama.
Obama says, look,
we're confronted
by the scientists saying
that unless we reduce
the annual amount of global
greenhouse gas emissions
by 70% by 2030, we're completely
wedded to total catastrophe.
By 70%.
And so the Obama administration
proposes, how about 33%?
How about 33%?
That'll work,
because we might be
able to get away with
that one and maintain
the funding the Democratic
Party gets from the oil and gas
corporations and the insurance
companies and big pharma.
Let's just take it a little--
it's like saying someone
is getting set to be killed
in an hour 100 miles away.
And so let's drive our car 50
miles an hour to get there.
That isn't going to happen.
And they know it.
And yet, they are so
hooked into the liberal--
the classic liberals,
the liberals
believe that they
have to stay wedded
to the transnational, corporate,
capitalist, economic system
as the major mechanism for
developing and distributing
the major resources
in the world.
And there are certain people
that benefit from that system.
And there are others who gain
some trickle-down benefits
from it, et cetera.
And the liberals are perfectly
willing to go along with that.
And so you see
this happening now
that the structures, the
Democratic and Republican
structures, what's
happened is when
we got to the end
of the Cold War
with the dissolution
of the Soviet Union
on December 31 of
1991, what happened
is the robber
barons that had been
in power from the
end of the Civil War,
1868, all the way to 1898,
the whole robber baron
era, which even high schools
teach as the age of imperialism
and the age of
the robber barons,
and go on and on and
on about how they
had all these mills
where people were
being chained to the machines
to work 12 hour days.
And the women that were
in the sewing factories,
they couldn't go to the
bathroom more than once a day.
All that kind of stuff.
That was in full flower up until
the end of the First World War
when the Soviet Union--
when the Bolsheviks rose up
in October of 1917
and established
a worldwide socialist
revolution to try
to confront the imperialists
and the capitalists that
were trying to take
over the whole world
for their corporations.
Perfectly obvious.
They were very clear about
what they were doing.
Mark Hanna, who was the major
political advisor for McKinley
in the 1898 election,
they asked him,
what would you
advise a young boy?
You know, ignoring all
the women, of course.
What would you advise a
young boy to do in life?
I suggest he make as
much money as he possibly
can before he dies.
Well, there's a great thing.
There's a big life view.
But that's the way they were.
And so what happened is that
when the socialist revolution
came on, and it got totally
sideswiped by Stalin
and taken over and turned into
an authoritarian communist
regime.
It was total crap.
But the bottom line is that as
soon as Gorbachev stepped out
of this dialectic that had
been going on for 75 years,
as soon as they
stepped out of that,
the robber barons just came
rushing back in full flower,
and said, let's get back to it.
There's been this
hiatus in our ability
to kind of take
over the whole world
and run it according
to our best interests.
What it means is
we have to infuse
this discussion about
global climate change
with a spiritual message,
that this isn't just
a political confrontation
between authoritarian
capitalism and socialism.
It cannot be that.
If they're both just completely
secular, non-spiritual combat,
this is going to be
mayhem for our country.
What we have to do is
infuse the entire movement
to stop global
climate change with
a genuine spiritual vision.
So the question that arises
is, what spiritual vision
is that going to be?
And I'm suggesting that we
have to be extremely careful.
You cannot go to just the
left systematist theological
worldview.
And moreover, it's prohibited
by the First Amendment.
You cannot have the state,
like our office is drafting
the California Green New Deal.
The Democratic central
committee, as you know,
the Democratic Party has 2/3
of the members of the state
assembly and 2/3 of
the state senate.
So I have super
majorities in both Houses.
We have the best chance
here in California
to get a genuine
Green New Deal passed.
So while Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez and Ed Markey
have put in a
nine-page bill, HR 109,
in the House of
Representatives and others
have put in similar four-
or five-page proposals,
we have actually
a 50-page outline
of the bill somewhere here.
Here it is.
Our office has put together
a 50-page outline, which
I have completely mislaid.
But we actually have a 350-page
draft of the bill in details.
And it covers 13 different
sectors, from transportation
to waste water to agriculture
to electricity, generating
electricity, et cetera.
This is not just a whole
bunch of abstract principles.
It's a very concrete program
as to how you get there.
But again, this has
to be advocated from
a non-theological point of
view, because if you're going
to exercise power on
behalf of the state,
whether it's the state of
California and the state
legislature and the
governor's office,
or whether it ends up being--
here it is.
Here's my little thing.
So here's our 50-page
outline of the whole thing
with the 13 different areas
of water and waste management
and electrical energy and
agriculture, forest management,
and forest fire
management education.
The Green Workforce, to
have like a Green New Deal
to employ the people that move
from the other industries.
We've got this working right
now, but what we have to do
is we have to field
a group of people
who are going to be espousing
the enactment of this
not for simply just
political reasons,
but for genuine
spiritual reasons.
And it is the sixth paradigm.
It's this new quantum
paradigm that's
just right at the edge of
sort of coming into being.
It's the new paradigm that
the entire kind of new age
community is talking about.
They're talking about it
at the California Institute
for Integral Studies.
They're talking about it.
IONS, the Institute
of Noetic Science.
They're all-- I
don't know what it
is they're all being so
shy about, but I mean,
it's a classic radical
monist worldview.
It's the sixth paradigm
quantum worldview,
realizing that the plenum, that
the fields of inchoate quantum
fields that are blinking on
and off every microsecond
can actually be
influenced by directed
intention of our human family.
And we can actually manifest
the next microsecond of reality
consistent with our intention,
fueled by love and affection,
in an experiential
sense of oneness.
We represent the Lakota
people, as you know, up
in North Dakota.
And you talk to the shamans.
And they'll say, Christians,
you guys are really funny.
You guys pray for rain.
And it doesn't rain.
What you have to do is
you have to be the rain.
You have to be the rain.
And the rain rains.
And if you don't
understand that,
you don't understand
the new paradigm.
There's no dialectical
relationship
between the infinite
and eternal.
This is an organic thing.
And we're not invoking the
intervention of the infinite
and eternal to support this.
What we're doing is
engaging the planet,
which is a living organism, of
which we're an integral part.
We have been generated
by the planet.
We've been generated
We are intimately
related with the planet.
And so therefore, we have
to take care of the planet
just as though it's a child.
We have to have the same kind
of affection, the same kind
of caring for the planet.
And this is the new paradigm.
And it relates very
clearly to indigenous
views, which are
known as pantheists.
This other thing,
this other thing,
the theistic point of view,
is what they call panantheism.
It's different.
You don't spend a lot of
time worrying about it.
But pantheism is what the
Catholic Church for so long
condemned as paganism.
And the Catholic
church is now moving.
The fact is Francis wrote the--
Pope Francis wrote the papal
on the cyclical, "Laudato Si,"
back in June of 19-- of 2015.
And the right wing bishops are
going crazy with their hair
on fire, saying, ooh,
this is pantheism.
This is paganism.
He's actually talking about
the planet having a spirit
that we relate to.
Yeah, right.
That's right.
And so what I'm suggesting
we do is all of us
can be extraordinarily positive
about the seventh paradigm,
the theistic paradigm
that we talked about,
and even be extraordinarily open
to the eighth paradigm of what
the worldview is that we're
going to have to adopt in order
to understand that we, in fact,
are not only not any longer
at the center of the
physical universe,
but we're not even at
the apex of the pyramid
of all conscious
beings in the universe.
We have been displaced now
by another highly intelligent
and highly
technologically developed,
but distinctly
non-human civilization.
And we have to come
to grips with that.
But not yet, not
yet, because we've
got this incredible emergency
in front of us right now.
And so we're going
to have to look
to the new paradigm, the
sixth paradigm, the quantum
worldview, the one that's all
being talked about by all of us
in the new age community
here and talk about this.
We can all work very hard to
get ready for the new paradigm,
the genuinely new paradigm,
or the eight paradigm, when--
as you know, the
churches and others
have all talked about
the fact that we are now
going to encounter the
existence of an extraterrestrial
intelligence much, much sooner
than we had ever anticipated,
because of the discovery
of all of the exoplanets
that we're going to--
I know how they're
going to do this.
They're going to roll
it in with the discovery
of the new exoplanets.
They're going to
find one exoplanet.
Oh, now they've
discovered water on Mars.
And what do you know?
Oh, there's some
remnants of water
on the moon, which
they were adamant there
wasn't any such thing.
And now they realize there are
planets, which they weren't
even willing to
acknowledge, which
tells you something about them.
But they now acknowledge
there are other planets.
They're going to
discover some microbe
of life underneath
the ice and some moon
of some distant planet.
They're going to
start discovering more
and more evolved forms of life.
And they're going to try to
go another entire generation
of slowly feathering in
the existence of life.
They're going to try to
completely ignore all the UFOs,
all the ET encounters
that everyone's had.
They don't want to have to
come to grips with what they've
been doing and concealing
it and lying about it
and punishing people
for their experience
and trying to get them
declared to be insane
and everything else
that they've done.
They don't want to come
to grips with that.
They want to just look to the
exoplanets as a source of life.
And so they're going to spend
another generation getting
us ready for this whole thing.
So that's down the line.
And that worldview, we have
to work on that worldview
to discuss the profound
philosophical theological
implications of our
being dislocated
from the peak of the pyramid of
conscious life in the universe.
But not yet.
Not yet.
We've got to get to the issue
of global climate change.
And we've got to
come and embrace
the sixth paradigm worldview,
the radical quantum worldview.
We've got to understand that
it's our collective intention,
motivated by love and affection
for our planet as an organism
out of which we arise,
and that there's
an intimate integral organic
relationship that we have
to the planet, and that we
have to work to save ourselves
and to save our planet.
In fact, a huge
majority of the people
that have encountered the
extraterrestrial beings
are saying they keep
trying to tell you this.
They keep trying
to say, you've got
to stop polluting your planet.
You've got to stop ruining your
whole climate on your planet.
They've been saying
this now for decades.
So that whole UFO
community thing
that we're involved in also
bears out what we're saying.
But we cannot do the heavy
lifting to have to establish
such a completely radical
brand new worldview.
We need to go to the
sixth paradigm worldview.
We've got to flesh out all the
implications of this quantum
worldview for our theology,
for our economics,
for our philosophies.
This is what we've got to do.
So this is the new paradigm.
That's why I'm advocating that
we work together to flesh out
the details of the new
paradigm and relate it directly
to the need to save our planet
and to move a spiritual vision
into place to
supplement the strictly
political and economic issues,
because the fact of the matter
is they're not working,
because the opponents of this
are completely dug in.
And they've got
access to the media.
They've got access to the money.
They've got access to the
political power, and then
the military power.
What we have is spiritual power.
And it's a secret
resource that we have.
And we need to bring
it to the fore.
We need to strengthen it.
We need to reach
out, and we need
to supplement all
the work we're doing.
Our office is doing
the outline of it.
We're doing the details of it.
We're in communication
with the Democratic Central
Committee of California.
We're doing all
the nuts and bolts.
That's why you have lawyers--
so you can do that.
You know what the nuts and
bolts are that have to get done.
But what we need to do here
is bring the spiritual vision
of the new paradigm
behind the need
to save our planet,
to save our species.
Remember, all species
don't survive.
All species don't survive.
So the dice are
rolling right now as
to whether we're going to,
whether we have contaminated
our own bed, whether
we've destroyed
our own planet, our
entire ecosystem,
despite the warnings that the
extraterrestrial beings have
been giving to us for decades.
We've got to change.
We've got to move.
And we've got to understand
what this new paradigm is
and what the philosophical
and spiritual basis is
that we can bring to the
discussion of the Green New
Deal.
So that's what I'm
proposing here.
And that's the relationship
between the awakening
to the new paradigm and the
passage of the Green New Deal.
So there I am.
[MUSIC PLAYING]